- [Narrator] Let's examine the benefits
of using Spring JMS API versus
the standard JMS specification.
First off, Spring JMS is not a MOM provider
but an abstraction layer of APIs to JMS.
If you remember from our previous video
message-oriented middleware products, MOM,
provides implementations of JMS spec interfaces.
Spring JMS however, provides an API abstraction
so the developer does not have to write
all of the standard boilerplate code involved
when talking to a MOM.
To make this clear, in order to use JMS 1.1
the developer has to first create the JNDI initial context.
Then get a ConnectionFactory from the JNDI context.
Followed by getting a queue
from the queue ConnectionFactory.
Then the developer can create the Session object
which a Sender or Receiver object can then be created.
Finally, the developer can either send or receive
a message using the Sender or Receiver object.
And then the developer has to close all the JMS resources
used for processing the message.
Spring JMS simplifies this process by abstracting
all of the first five steps and the last step
of closing the connection.
So keep in mind that using JMS spec alone,
the developer has to continually manage a number
of JMS resources only for the task
of sending and receiving message objects.
Spring Framework introduced a templating API
much like the did with JDBC template class
or JNDI template class called the JMS Template.
These class templates can be transactional.
When needed and perform excellent at managing resources
that need to be opened and closed without the developer
having to pay too much attention.
The JmsTemplate distills the work
of performing JMS operations down to either
sending or receiving messages.
Connection sessions and JNDI contexts
are all abstracted away
to make the development process much easier.
To set up JmsTemplate all you need is a ConnectionFactory
that is usually provided by a MOM and via
the JNDI context call from JEE qualified container.
So let me reiterate advantages of using Spring JMS
as well as a couple of others for JMS messaging.
Spring JMS provides a JMS abstraction API
that simplifies the use of JMS to access
the destinations, queues or topics.
And publish messages to specify destinations.
J2EE developers don't need to be concerned
about the differences between JMS versions,
such as JMS 1.0.2 versus JMS 1.1.
Spring JMS API handles this.
And developers don't need to specifically deal
with JMS checked exceptions because Spring catches those
and returns the unchecked exception for any JMS exception
that is re-thrown.
Additionally instances of Spring JMS Template Class
are thread safe once configured.
Now that you know the benefits of using Spring JMS,
we can set up a small Spring boot application
to demonstrate how easy it is
to use Spring Framework's JMS API.